### Face_recognition_project
In this walk through I have performed face recognition on celeb_face dataset. The dataset is divided into train and validation . Train has 290 images and validation has 90 images. By using two different models Local binary pattern histogram face recognizer and facenet i have performed face recognition. 

For face detection, I used the haarcascade frontal face model. The model is a xml file having data stored in it. Opencv provides the CascadeClassifier that imports models from github. Further input images are given to the haar cascade model to detect the faces from the images, then these detected faces have been used in face recognition.

Once our detection process is done, now I have applied the LBPH(Local binary pattern histogram) recognizer on images. Using LBPH,  images are converted into Local binary patterns. Further these pattern images are used to create the histograms, then the model is trained. Further when an input image is given, its Histogram is compared with trained images histogram. A threshold value is set if the distance between the two histograms is greater than the threshold, then the best match is the output. In this model I'm able to get an accuracy of 71% on train and 95% on validation.

Till now I have done LBPHF. Now I have worked on the Facenet model. Facenet uses a pretrained InceptionResentV1 network which is trained on VGGface2. I have performed some finetuning on the network. I have removed all the last five layers and further I added adaptive avg pool, linear layer, softmax in sequential manner so that it fits my dataset. I have also performed some transforms on the dataset before giving them as input to the model to train,  transforms such as resize(), normalize() etc. Furthermore, to train the model I have used an optimizer as stochastic gradient descent, criterion as cross entropy().  Also I did hyper tuning of parameters. I used learning_rate as 1e-3, momentum as 0.99. In this model I am able to get an accuracy of 90.26% on train and 92.067% on validation.

In the end i would like to conclude both the methods are good. Accuracy of the model can be increased more which i will be working on. In the future I will also be working on more facial recognition models.
